- [Narrator] One of the alternative options
to get started with Kubernetes on your desktop
is to use Minikube.
This section will show you how you can get started with
Minikube on your desktop.
Now Minikube requires a Type-2 hypervisor.
So in this case we're going to use VirtualBox.
Provide the admin access
because VirtualBox would need to create vm's on your behalf.
Once VirtualBox in installed
the next step is to install Minikube.
Now Minikube is installed.
One of the things I want to highlight here is,
if you look at "brew link --overwrite kubernetes-cli,"
as part of Minikube it also installed the latest version
of Kubernetes to CLI
but it did not override it so that is an explicit decision
that you will have to make if you want to use the latest
Kubernetes to CLI.
Then you can explicitly link it as part of
brew command itself.
But for know, we'll just move on.
So, our first thing is to start Minikube cluster.
So we say, "minikube start."
This is going to download the ISO that forms a basis for the
VirtualBox image and then is going to fire up the cluster
and is going to download the components in the cluster
and finally, our Kubernetes cluster will be ready.
This could take a little bit longer
depending on your internet speed.
Alright, after downloading all the components,
configuring them, Minikube cluster is now up and running.
So, the first thing we're going to do is
take a look at our contexts.
In this case, it shows two contexts.
The first context is Docker for desktop
because this is what we installed in our previous section
and it shows Minikube
which we just installed.
Now the start is around Minikube.
What that means is Minikube is a current context.
So what that means is any Kubectl commands that we give now
are going to be configured and used against
this particular cluster.
So let's try, "kubectl version" now.
Kubectl version shows client version,
which is a Kubectl cli version.
In this case this is 1, 10
and the Server Version, which is the kubernetes version
is 1, 12, because that is the version of the Kubernetes
server installed by Minikube.
Let's try, "kubectl get nodes."
And once again it shows that
it's a single-node Kubernetes cluster
running our local machine.
Now, one important thing for you to understand is
as part of pursuing in this course,
we will be using Docker for desktop.
So let's go ahead and change the context to
Docker for desktop.
So we will say," kubectl config use-context,"
is the command. Which basically explains that this is a
context that I want to use.
Copy the context name from here,
paste it here,
and now the context is switched to Docker for desktop
and now if I say, "kubctl config get-contexts,"
both the contexts are shown, but Docker for desktop
is the one that is our current context.
It's important that you switch to this context
because for all of our local development
we will be using Docker for desktop for Kubernetes.